June Heartbeat for review (#2567)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2021-06-16-june-21-dvc-heartbeat.md

﻿---
title: June '21 Heartbeat
date: 2021-06-16
description: |

>   Monthly updates are here! Making sense of the MLOps Landscape, MLOps 
>   Community love, our MLOps philosophy, DVC Studio, R for DVC, new learning

Reviewer: MLOps a bit repetitive plus sounds like we could merge these 2 from the content?

```suggestion
  Monthly updates are here! Making sense of the MLOps Landscape and
  Community, our MLOps philosophy, DVC Studio, R for DVC, new learning
```

Author: not making sense of the Community, so just dropped second MLOps so the just "Community love,..."

Reviewer: OK sure, up to you. I just thought it was repetitive but. Not a strong opinion

  opportunities, team members and more!
descriptionLong: |
  This month you will find:
  🗺 Navigating the MLOps Landscape,
  🧐 Our MLOps philosophy
  📖 MLOps learning opportunities,
  💻 R with DVC, 

>   🎥 conference videos from our team members,
>   🚀 info on our growing team, and more!

Reviewer: 💅 

```suggestion
  🎥 Conference videos from our team members,
  🚀 Info on our growing team, and more!
```

picture: 2021-06-16/june21cover.png
author: jeny_defigueiredo
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/june-21-heartbeat/793?
tags:
  - Heartbeat
  - DVC
  - CML
  - MLOps Community
  - R

>   - PyData SoCal

Reviewer: `MLOps Community` tag may be too specific, is it or will it ever be used again in other posts? Maybe just `MLOps`. Same for `PyData SoCal`: just `PyData`?

---

# From the Community

This month I'm going to take you on a thought provoking journey through some of
the content from our community.

![So many choices...](https://media.giphy.com/media/Uni2jYCihB3fG/giphy.gif)

> ## LJ Miranda Triad of order

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
## LJ Miranda's Triad of order
```

The MLOps tool landscape can be confusing to say the least.  
[LJ Miranda](https://twitter.com/ljvmiranda921), in a well written
[three-part series](https://ljvmiranda921.github.io/notebook/2021/05/10/navigating-the-mlops-landscape/)
lays out a framework for making sense of this space. The list of tools is not
exhaustive, but the framework and thought process for evaluating the tools is
intriguing. Additionally he encourages thinking about the skillset of the
members of your team within this framework to help you make decisions on the
right tools. It's not just about the tools, it's about the people!

As you can see DVC makes it into the "Trial" loop, but we think we will be be
making it into the adoption region in relatively short order. 😉🚀

> ![](/uploads/images/2021-06-16/LJMiranda.png)_Making sense of the MLOps

Reviewer: 💅 
```suggestion
![](/uploads/images/2021-06-16/LJMiranda.png) _Making sense of the MLOps
```

Landscape_

## Found in the MLOps Community

You can find more comments from LJ Miranda and others in response to a
[great question](https://mlops-community.slack.com/?redir=%2Farchives%2FC015J2Y9RLM%2Fp1622714574054300)
from André Godinho in the [MLOps Community](https://mlops.community/) Slack (see

> below). If you're into MLOps and you're NOT a apart of the MLOps Community, you
> should be. You can join the
> [MLOPS Slack channel here](https://mlops-community.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-o96abp9z-sRYKWb96wGK9vdhUvbSrsQ#/shared-invite/email).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
below). If you're into MLOps and you're NOT a part of this Community, you
should be. You can join their Slack
[here](https://mlops-community.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-o96abp9z-sRYKWb96wGK9vdhUvbSrsQ#/shared-invite/email).
```

Not sure these last sentences are needed though, feels like we're pushing that community. Users can click the link (provided earlier) and decide for themselves, probably. Unless the intention IS to promote it.

Author: The intention is to promote it.

> I have recently came across with DVC by listening to MLOps Coffee Sessions #6
> with David Aponte and Elle O'Brien (Such an interesting talk! 💯). This tool
> integrates smoothly with Git, tracks models & datasets, and also has an online
> UI DVC Studio 🚀. Is there any use case of MLflow that DVC can't handle? I
> find DVC to give more rise to creativity as it integrates really well with
> Git. - André Godinho

> ## Neda Sultova Tutorial

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
## Neda Sultova's Tutorial
```

Reviewer: Also, tutorial on? It's explained below but maybe the title could be descriptive too e.g. Tutorial on DVC for ML

Author: Good point! 👍🏼

Drilling down to the next level, I give you
[this tutorial](https://medium.com/geekculture/exploring-dvc-for-machine-learning-pipelines-in-research-part-1-3ebc2ca35a18)
by [Neda Sultova](https://www.linkedin.com/in/neda-sultova-597a811a8/). Not only
is it a great tutorial of DVC in and of itself, but Neda started with her use
case and the framework for deciding on what tools will bridge the gaps and

> increase efficiency for her team at [Helmholtz AI](https://www.helmholtz.ai/).

Reviewer: Long sentence. And I'm not sure what's being said here (after ", but").

Author: Reworking...

Among the needs are reproducibility, workflow integration, exchangeable backend,

> framework agnostic, open source and the ability of the solution to be tweaked to
> the team's needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
framework agnostic, open source, and flexibility to tweak the solution as needed
by the team.
```

Author: 👍🏼

<external-link
href="https://medium.com/geekculture/exploring-dvc-for-machine-learning-pipelines-in-research-part-1-3ebc2ca35a18"
title="Exploring DVC for Machine Learning Pipelines in Research (Part 1)"
description="The first of a multi-part series on the search and decision making process for MLOps tools at Helmholtz AI."
link="https://medium.com"
image="/uploads/images/2021-06-15/neda-sultova.png"/>

## Our Philosophy

And at last I bring you to
["The Road to AI Hell Starts with Good MLOps Intentions" ](https://thenewstack.io/the-road-to-ai-hell-starts-with-good-mlops-intentions/)
by our CEO [Dmitry Petrov](https://twitter.com/FullStackML) which explains our

> philosophy in the MLOps space. You will learn about Dmitry's experience that led
> to our tools, what we think is the right way to solve MLOps challenges, and how

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
philosophy in the MLOps space. You will learn about the experiences that led
to developing our tools, what we think is the right way to solve MLOps challenges, and how
```
> Needs wrapping of course.

we do it.

> Teams made up of data scientists and developers should be able to define their
> own workflow based on their business requirements and team preferences, just
> like they do today when constructing any other software artifact. Rather than
> a platform forcing teams to embrace a highly opinionated workflow, they can
> employ flexible tools such Git, GitHub, and their existing CI tools as they
> see fit. - Dmitry Petrov

<external-link
href="https://thenewstack.io/the-road-to-ai-hell-starts-with-good-mlops-intentions/"
title="The Road to AI Hell Starts with Good MLOps Intentions"
description="Dmitry Petrov explains the journey and philosophy at the heart of Iterative.ai's MLOps tools."
link="https://thenewstack.io"
image="/uploads/images/2021-06-15/ai-hell.png"/>

# Big News! 🚀🚀🚀

> In case you missed it, June 3rd we introduced our latest tool that offers a GUI
> to display your team's work with DVC and CML: DVC Studio! We know this has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you missed it, June 3rd we introduced our latest tool: [DVC Studio](https://studio.iterative.ai/)! A web application which GUI
displays your team's work with DVC and CML We know this has been
```
> Needs wrapping

on our Community's wishlist and now it's here! You can check out all its
features and [give it a try here](https://studio.iterative.ai/). Or check out
the introduction video below.

https://youtu.be/hKf4twg832g

# Learning Opportunities

## R for DVC!

Are you or someone on your team an R user?
[João Santiago](https://twitter.com/jcpsantiago) who has contributed to DVC,

> recently came up with dvcru to provide utility functions for DVC pipelines using

Reviewer: 💅 
```suggestion
recently came up with `dvcru` to provide utility functions for DVC pipelines using
```

Author: Yes!  That's better!

R scripts. Additionally the project aims to show typical workflows they enable
as well as provide project templates. Check out all the R goodness in
[this Github Repository](https://github.com/jcpsantiago/dvcru).

<external-link
href="https://github.com/jcpsantiago/dvcru"
title="dvcru"
description="João Santiago's repository for dvcru, providing utility functions for DVC Pipelines using R scripts."
link="https://github.com"
image="/uploads/images/2021-06-15/r.png"/>

## Milecia McGregor at PyData SoCal

Next up we have [Milecia McGregor](https://twitter.com/FlippedCoding) presenting
and live coding at [PyData SoCal](https://www.meetup.com/PyData-SoCal/)

> organized by [Pramit Choudhary](https://twitter.com/MaverickPramit). Checkout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organized by [Pramit Choudhary](https://twitter.com/MaverickPramit). Check out
```
